Good afternoon, and welcome to the
Developer Tools Kickoff.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Just over a year ago,
we released Xcode 4.0,
a brand-new release of
Apple's Developer Tools.
And with this release,
we took Apple's Developer Tools to
a whole new level.
We reimagined the user interface.
We implemented some streamlined
workflows that scaled really
well to large and small screens.
We focused on integrating really
great design and editing tools,
and then harmonizing them
together through Apple's
new Xcode Assistant Editor.
We built in tools for source code
management to allow you to review
and refine your changes as a natural
part of your developer workflow.
And we built the LLVM technologies
right into the IDE so you could
use the power throughout the UI.
Now, we built on this momentum and
brought you a number of great
Xcode releases over the last year.
This past summer, alongside OS X Lion,
we shipped Xcode 4.1.
And in Xcode 4.1,
we included a great new technology,
Auto Layout for OS X,
which is a great way for you to define
and refine the layout for your UIs.
Last fall, alongside iOS 5,
we shipped Xcode 4.2.
Xcode 4.2 had some brilliant
technologies in it,
storyboards for iOS,
and also the new OpenGL ES Debugger,
a great way for you to
improve and optimize the
graphics in your applications.
This spring we shipped you Xcode 4.3,
which brought support for
Developer ID for OS X,
but it also introduced some significant
improvements in the packaging and
distribution of the Xcode tools.
With Xcode 4.3, we kind of turned the
tools on their head a bit.
Instead of shipping you a large
Developer folder full of disparate tools,
we instead are now going to ship you
a single Xcode.app with everything
you need embedded directly inside.
And this has really been a great
improvement for the installation
and update experience for the tools.
In addition to repackaging Xcode,
we also broke out some of the related
tools for the development process
into smaller incremental packages.
And these packages are focused
around kind of domain-specific areas,
things like graphics applications,
audio tools, and hardware utilities.
Now,
these packages are available from Apple's
Developer website to download directly,
or you can download them through Xcode,
making it really easy for
you to get these tools
wherever you want to use them.
And as separate packages,
we gained the ability to update these
outside of our normal release process,
so we can make sure to get you the latest
and greatest fixes quickly and easily.
In addition to these packages,
we also broke out some other content.
For those of you who may prefer
to bask in the warm glow of
a terminal window most days,
we also shipped the
Command Line Tools package.
This package gives you all the
tools necessary to work with your
open source and community projects
directly from the command line.
So whether you'd like to use a graphical
IDE or you'd like to stay in terminal,
you now have the ability to access
all of Apple's Developer Tools to
work with these projects.
Last year we stood up on stage
here at WWDC and said we were going
to improve the installation and
update experience with the tools.
At the time we were shipping an
installer app in the App Store,
which meant getting the tools
was a multi-step process.
You had to download the installer,
you had to find the installer,
you had to run the installer,
and then you could get
access to the tools.
I'm really happy to say that
getting the tools now is a
completely hassle-free process.
You can download Xcode
right from the App Store,
just as you would any of the
other thousands of applications.
And you can be notified
when updates are available.
So this is a really big improvement
to the installation process.
But we also wanted to make sure
to update the update process,
and for that we needed to
address the download size.
Last year when we shipped Xcode 4.1,
our download size was a
little bit over 4 gigabytes.
And I don't think there's anything
more to be said about that.
When we shipped Xcode 4.2,
we were able to shrink the package
size down to about 1.5 gigabytes by
making some of the legacy content,
like the older iOS simulators,
downloadable on demand.
Now, this is a huge improvement,
but even at this size,
we know that getting the tools can take
a little while over slower connections.
And we wanted to improve still.
I'm happy to announce that yesterday
we shipped Xcode 4.3.3 in the
App Store as a 97-megabyte update.
Yeah, we are actually really happy,
and apparently so are you,
that we're able to deliver
these kinds of updates to you.
In fact,
the model of the App Store makes it
really easy for us to focus on small
targeted bug fix releases as well
as larger more complete releases
with the iOS and OS X SDK updates
all using the same mechanism.
And this is really important to us
because we feel very strongly you
guys should always have the latest and
greatest tools as easily as possible
so you can get the latest fixes,
adopt the latest APIs and
leverage the latest features in
order for you to leverage those
during your development process.
So we have two great new versions of
Xcode to talk to you about this week.
That's Xcode 4.4 and Xcode 4.5.
Now, the core of these tools is the same.
Xcode 4.4 delivers the
OS X Mountain Lion SDK,
and Xcode 4.5 adds in the iOS 6 SDK.
I'm happy to announce the first feature,
which is that we are for the
first time going to be supporting
these tools running on multiple
OS releases from a single binary.
So what does that mean?
It means for the previews
and for the full releases,
you'll be able to run Xcode 4.4 and 5
both on OS X Lion and OS X Mountain Lion.
So now getting access to the
latest tools is really simple.
Now for these releases,
we've been focusing on the core
functionality of the tools.
We've really been focused
on the robustness,
the stability, and the performance,
and focusing on some key features.
And I'd like to talk about some
of those key features today,
starting with language.
And by language,
I mean the Objective-C language,
of course.
Objective C is the foundation
and cornerstone of both
the iOS and OS X platforms.
As an object-oriented extension to C,
it's gained many modern conveniences and
enhancements over the last few years,
as we want to make the
development process easier.
A few years ago,
we added declared properties,
and this is a really simple and intuitive
way for you to manipulate and manage
the accessor methods for your objects.
When we provided this syntax,
we also included some directives,
like @synthesize and @dynamic,
to allow you to control how your
properties would be provided.
We wanted to make
properties even simpler.
So this year, with the latest tools,
you will now find that the compiler will
automatically synthesize your properties.
What does that mean?
It means you no longer need to
type @synthesize ever again.
And implementing properties
is now a single line of code.
Last year,
we also added to the memory management
models of Objective-C and removed
the need to write these methods
ever again when we introduced
Automatic Reference Counting,
or ARC for short.
Pretty much true to its name,
Arc gives you the ability to use
simple and automatic memory management
from the runtime and never have
to write retain and release again.
And it's a really simple
way to manage your objects.
Now, we've been focusing on some
other great new features for you.
And in keeping with the
theme of less is more,
we have a great new technology
to introduce to you,
which is in the form of object literals.
Now, object literals are a succinct
way to write common code.
You're undoubtedly familiar with the
pattern we have today for strings.
This being quoted text prefixed
with the at sign as a shorthand
for creating string objects.
We have four new versions of the object
literals for you to use in your code.
for numbers, dictionaries, arrays,
and expressions.
And I think the best way to experience
these is through a demonstration,
so I'd like to bring up Mike Ferris
to show you how they work.
Mike?
Good afternoon, everybody.
You know, hundreds of millions of people
really love the apps that you create.
Let me show you how the new
Xcode makes it even easier to
create these great applications.
LLVM has a great new syntax
for creating literal numbers,
arrays, and dictionaries.
Here we can see some code that's creating
these objects in the traditional way.
Now the new way to create
an NSNumber is very simple.
It's just an @ sign
followed by the number.
If you want a numeric
expression or an enum constant,
you can just wrap it in parentheses.
For arrays, we use square brackets.
And the best thing of all is there's
no longer any need to nil terminate.
Dictionaries use curly braces
containing comma-separated key-value
pairs where the key comes first.
and the rest of the team.
We've always had
NSString literal objects too,
so let's just round out the
full set of literals here.
And as I do,
notice another new feature in Xcode.
We have code completion showing
us documentation right here.
We're bringing the documentation
right into the code completion window.
And NSString is selected
as the default completion.
Because now Xcode remembers my most
common completions and will actually
use those to prioritize its results.
Okay, so this is the full
set of object literals,
and as you can see,
we have a bunch more code down here
that could be improved with these.
So let's get started with that as well.
I can just go to the refactor
menu and choose convert to
modern Objective-C syntax.
I'll confirm what target
I want to convert,
and then Xcode will actually look at
all my code and figure out where it can
improve things with this new syntax.
We see the new code on the left,
and as you can see,
it's really a lot more
compact and more readable.
So we'll accept that.
Let Xcode make those changes.
Now, another great new feature is
automatic property synthesis.
So with @synthesize being the default,
adding a property is
now just a single step.
I see that I have some @synthesize
statements here in my class,
and I know that I probably have some
elsewhere in this project as well,
and I'd really like to remove them.
I don't want to actually
change parts of this project,
though,
that belong to other people on my team.
So let's use another new feature
in Xcode to help out with that.
To search just part of a project,
use the context menu in
the search navigator,
in the project navigator rather,
to choose search and select a group.
We'll be taken to the search navigator
where now all the searching that we do
is going to be scoped to just that group.
So I can find all the
synthesize statements,
and yeah, there are a number of
them in my code here.
I'd like to use replace
to get rid of these,
but of course if I do that now,
it's just going to remove the
@synthesize and not the rest of the line.
I could use regular expressions to
try to match the rest of the line,
but I can never really
remember how those work.
So instead,
let's use another new feature in Xcode,
simple pattern searches.
I can use insert pattern to
put in a token that will match
any sequence of characters,
followed by a semicolon.
and then a line break.
And now we can do the search.
And now you can see that
Xcode is matching the entire
synthesized statement,
the whole line.
And when we replace,
I can get rid of all of them.
Now I'm done searching.
Let's focus back in on the code.
I can see that this is
starting to look pretty good.
All that extra synthesis is gone,
and my literals are looking a lot nicer.
But what's kind of standing
out to me now is that I have
all these forward declarations
of private internal API that,
you know, keep me from immediately seeing
the good stuff in my class.
And it turns out that I don't
really need these anymore either.
It's no longer necessary to forward
declare methods that are only used in
the implementation block of your class.
So let's delete those as well.
Now this is looking great.
When I look at this file,
I immediately start to see
the interesting content.
And by removing all that synthesis
and forward declarations,
my code is actually less error-prone
because that was just duplicated
information that I had to keep in sync.
It's amazing how little stuff
like this can be such a huge help
when it comes to readability and
maintainability of your code.
Now, as you're typing all this nice,
clean code, Xcode is paying attention.
And it's figuring out a lot of
interesting stuff about your project.
and it uses that information
to enable some great workflows.
For example, I have here a category on
UI Bezier Path that implements a
method that implements a behavior
that I know is now provided
by the iOS 6 SDK as built-in API.
I want to remove this since there's
no point in replicating functionality
the SDK is giving me for free.
In order to get rid of this safely,
though, let me use another new feature
of Xcode to help out with that.
Here in the Assistant Editor,
I'm going to choose the new
Callers Assistant category.
Xcode immediately shows me code
that calls the method that I have
focused in my primary editor.
And as I move my selection around,
it continuously updates to always
be showing me things that call the
code that I'm currently focused on.
This gives us a great new way to explore
the way control flows through our code.
Going back to the method
that I want to remove,
the assistant is telling me that I have
two calls to this method in my class,
or in my project.
As I change the first one,
it's no longer a caller
of my category method,
and Xcode automatically notices
this and updates the caller category
to show me that I now have only
one call remaining to this API.
As I change the last one, again,
Xcode will notice,
and now the assistant is
telling me that I'm done.
And so is my demo.
Thanks very much.
So as you can see,
the new object literal syntax
really improves the readability
and writeability of your code.
And the new auto synthesis of properties
reduces the amount of synchronization
necessary when working with properties.
And we think that these and the rest
of the Objective-C features are really
going to improve your experience
when working with Objective-C.
Now,
in as much as we talk about the future,
we also need to address
a little bit of the past.
As you heard yesterday,
the memory management model garbage
collection has been deprecated
starting with OS X Mountain Lion.
The latest release of Xcode now includes
support in our Arc migration utility,
which will automatically
convert your application to Arc.
It includes support now for converting
garbage-collected applications.
So now it is really easy for everyone
to be able to move their applications
over to Arc and take advantage
of the features it has to offer.
So those were just a few of
the language improvements.
Mike gave you a sneak peek into some
of the editing improvements in the IDE,
and I'd like to dive into those
in a little bit more detail.
The first feature is
Code Completion with Quick Help.
Mike gave you a demo of this,
but now in the Code Completion UI,
in addition to seeing the available API,
you now also see an abstract, excuse me,
for the method that you have selected.
And this is a really great
way for you to learn about and
adopt new APIs in your code.
If you find that you want to
learn more about this API,
there's an associated More link
in this window that'll jump right
into the documentation to give you
all the information that you need.
Now sticking with the idea of
learning more about your APIs,
we've also improved the
Quick Help experience in the editor.
And Quick Help is a great way
for you to learn more about the
APIs that are already in your code.
To use Quick Help,
you simply take the cursor and
move it over a particular piece of
API and hold down the Option key.
This will bring up the Quick Help cursor,
and clicking on the API will
bring up the Quick Help popover.
You can see here that we've enhanced
the Quick Help experience to include
even more information about the APIs,
including breakdowns of the
parameters for your particular method.
So it's even easier now to get help.
I'm a little excited here,
so I went on to the next feature,
which is trailing whitespace removal.
Trailing whitespace is kind
of like the pollen of the
source code editing experience.
Bear with me a second.
It's invisible.
It builds up over time,
and for some of us, it's really,
really irritating.
The Xcode Source Code Editor now
includes a feature to automatically
remove trailing white space.
So whether it's at the
end of a line-- It's okay,
you can clap for that.
and Chris Lester.
Whether it's at the end of a
line or it's on an entirely
what looks to be an empty line,
the editor will automatically
remove this for you.
So now your editor can be white,
trailing white space, worry free.
Another great feature of the Xcode
Source Editor is replace in selection.
Now when you are in the find and
replace workflow in the Source Editor,
you can make a selection,
and if you hold down the option key,
you will see that the replace all
button at the top of the view now
converts to an in selection button,
giving you much finer-grain control
over your find and replace actions.
Mike showed you some of the improvements
to the search functionality,
searching by groups and
the new pattern matching.
The Search Navigator now also includes a
great new feature in symbolic searches.
So now you can search for
definitions and references of
symbols throughout your project,
making it that much easier to hone in
on the source code you're looking for.
Now,
we know that searching is an integral
part of the development experience,
and we wanted to make sure we
had the best searching possible.
And that really starts
with search performance.
We've really focused in this release on
improving our textual search performance,
and I'm pretty sure you guys
are going to like what you see.
As an example,
we took the open source WebKit project,
which has about 10,000 source code files,
and we searched for a string
that appears about 50 times.
We used the industry standard
grep and looked for those matches,
and it came in at about 19 seconds.
The previous Xcode was a
little bit slower than this.
I'm happy to say that the new
Xcode is now a quarter of the
time it takes to search grep.
and this is a really great improvement.
And the larger your project is,
the more you're going
to love this feature.
Now, we also wanted to take the power of
searches and bring them directly into
the source code editing experience,
which is what we've done with
the caller and callee assistants.
You can think of these as super-fast
searches that the IDE performs on your
behalf just by watching your selection.
So now, if you want to navigate and edit
your source code symbolically,
you can do so by staying in
the editor and letting the
IDE do all the work for you.
Once you've made all these
changes to your source code,
we have some great new improvements to
the source code management functions.
And the first is selective commit.
When you're in the comparison view,
that's the side-by-side view when
looking at two versions of your project,
you'll notice that there's a new
control in the middle of the editor.
This control provides some
really great functions to it
with an associated context menu.
And the context menu on the
right provides one option
I really want to highlight,
which is the don't commit option.
This option allows you to cherry-pick
changes that are in your source code
to not commit during this operation.
By selecting this,
the changes stay in your source code,
but you've told Xcode to do all the
heavy lifting underneath to make sure
those changes do not get committed.
And this really frees you up to
make all the changes you feel are
necessary while you're working,
and then at the time you're
going to review your commit,
you can individually select the
changes that you want to commit.
And this allows you to create
a new control that allows
you to check in your changes.
So this is a really great improvement.
Now,
once you're ready to commit your changes,
we also have a new option at
the bottom of the commit sheet.
You'll see in the lower left
that there's a new control,
commit to branch.
And this button allows you to
create a brand-new branch for your
checkout and check in your changes,
allowing you to easily pick where
your changes get checked in.
So this,
in combination with the previous feature,
gives you a lot of control over
what and where you're checking in.
So those are just some of a few
of the great new editing features
we have in the latest Xcode.
But we also have some great
design features to talk about.
We take the I and IDE very seriously.
We want to make sure that your
development experience includes
design aspects that are really
core to the development process.
When we built Xcode 4,
we integrated Interface Builder
directly into the IDE to make
sure you had the best possible
experience for visual design.
Like with source code,
you can focus wholly on your
interface to dive in really deep,
but you can also marry the two together,
working side by side with your visual
interface and your source code.
and in fact,
this model of working with the
Assistant Editor even allows you to
drag and drop connections between
your source code and your interface,
making new connections,
making new actions,
and it's a really natural way to connect
up the elements of your interface.
Now we've continued to bring more
and more design improvements to
the development process to give you
guys more of a chance to create the
amazing things that you can think of.
One that we added last year
was Storyboards for iOS.
And Storyboards give you the
ability to visualize and design your
applications in a very fluid manner.
You can set up the individual
screens for your project,
and then connect them all together
with segues and transitions.
And you can really see and
visualize the flow of your
application from a high level,
which is a really kind of
natural way to design your apps.
We also added Auto Layout for OS X,
which is a way for you to manage
the sizing and positioning of
your controls in your interface.
With Auto Layout,
many of the challenges of interface
design were removed with the
introduction of constraints.
And constraints are the rules with
which the interface is defined,
and you'll see those as
these blue crossbeams in the
Interface Builder Canvas.
The constraints give you the
ability to design your UI not with
just how you want it laid out,
but what your intent is
behind the interface.
Being able to articulate things like
these two views should be the same size,
or these buttons should
always move together.
And this is a really powerful
way to design the UIs because
it reacts in the way you expect.
I'm happy to say with
Xcode 4.5 and iOS 6,
we are bringing Auto Layout to iOS.
So now you have all of this power
when designing your iOS applications.
It turns out that Auto Layout and
iOS are a perfect fit for each other.
Kind of by nature,
you know that iOS applications
need to respond to changes.
Something as simple as running an
application and rotating a device,
you inherently know that the
application is going to need to adjust
to that new size and to make sure
that it continues to give the best
user experience in this new layout.
And this is exactly what
Auto Layout was designed to do,
to handle these kinds of changes
and give you the power to articulate
exactly what you expect to have happen.
Now there's another way
that applications on iOS and
OS X need to respond to changes,
and that's when you localize the content.
And now the combination of the
power of Auto Layout and some brand
new localization workflows make
creating localized apps even easier.
Before, when you had to localize apps,
you would start with your user
interface in a ZIP or a storyboard,
and you would create a copy,
one for each localization
that you intended.
Now,
besides the obvious scalability problem,
there's the synchronization problem.
When you decided you wanted to change
your interface in one of these,
you needed to go and update it throughout
all of the different interfaces.
Now with the power of Auto Layout,
you can focus on designing a
single base user interface,
one that knows how to respond to changes
in the content and to do the right thing.
So now creating a localized
application is as simple as working
on your base user interface,
localizing your content,
and effectively just hitting run.
And to prove how easy this is,
I'm going to bring up Jon Hess to
give you a demonstration.
Jon?
Thanks, Matt.
I'd like to demonstrate the
precision and intuition of
Auto Layout and Interface Builder.
Let's go over to the demo machine.
Here I have an early copy of
our Site Seer application,
but the design isn't quite complete.
This title area, for example,
needs to be moved into the center.
I'm going to drop it right here
where the centering guide and
interface builder suggests.
And you can see that automatically
this blue line has been
added to the interface.
That's a constraint.
Constraints in the
Auto Layout System specify things like
the sizing of a view or the spacing
between two views or how views align.
This constraint is going to
make it so that our title always
stays centered in our screen.
In addition to the title,
I'm going to add a couple
of buttons to our interface.
I'll have one here on the left
and two more on the right.
Now, there's a second constraint that
I'd like to draw your attention to.
And it's right here
between these two buttons.
It's a spacing constraint,
and it's going to ensure
they're always that small
distance apart from each other.
As I make edits in Interface Builder,
for example, changing this button to say
"near" to show a list of
nearby locations we can see,
Interface Builder is going to
maintain those constraints,
and it's going to resize the
surrounding user interface elements.
So, the button shrinks,
and this button here on the
left gets pulled into the right.
I'm going to press undo and redo so
that you can see that happen again.
Watch right here.
This saves me lots of time not
cleaning up after myself after
I make edits to my content.
This button here is going to
show a schedule of things that
we have planned for the day.
And over on the left,
we'll have a list of locations
that we can visit in the Bay Area.
Now we've got all the major user
interface elements in place,
let's see how this looks in portrait.
All right, things look great.
The button that we added to the left
stayed in the upper left-hand corner.
The buttons that we added to the
right stayed in the right corner.
And our title stayed centered.
Back in landscape,
one thing that's catching my
eye here is this Near button.
It's really small compared
to the Schedule button.
In fact,
it looks kind of lopsided and awkward.
I think it would look a lot
better if all three of these
buttons were the same width.
And you'll often see that in
applications where you have a row of
buttons that will be equally sized.
Setting this up in Auto Layout is easy.
I can just select all three buttons.
And down here in the
bottom of the canvas,
we have a menu to manipulate
constraints in Interface Builder.
I'm going to choose to pin the width
of all three of these buttons equally.
So now each button is just
the same size as the others.
In fact, they're all as big as the
largest of the three buttons.
If I were to change the title
of one of these buttons,
for example, to "Today's Schedule,"
they grow together.
Now,
this button is getting a little too close
to my title in the center of the screen.
And I know we're going to
visit some places in this
app with really long names.
So I'm going to back off that big title.
But I want to -- I need to think about
how my application should respond when
there's not enough room to display the
full name in this area that we have here.
One opportunity that I see is the
left-hand side of the screen over
here has more space available than
the right-hand side of the screen.
When things start to get
really tight for my title,
I'd actually like it to push over
into that available space on the left.
I'd also like to make sure that
my title never starts to occlude
these buttons on the sides.
This is easy.
I'm going to just select my
title and the button and add
a new constraint between them.
This is a horizontal spacing constraint.
And right now it's specifying that
the title should always be this
fixed distance from the button.
In fact, though,
I'd like the title to be able
to grow to fill that area,
but not get too close to the button.
So rather than saying that
this is a fixed distance,
I want to say that this is a
distance that's always greater
than or equal to a small value,
like 20 points.
And now the title will not be able to
grow closer than 20 points to the button.
I'm going to specify a matching
constraint on the opposite side.
Horizontal spacing, always greater than
or equal to 20 points.
Now our title can never
occlude our buttons.
It's always going to stop just short.
But our title is also always
going to be centered because
of the centering constraint.
When things get tight and the
title grows all the way up against
the button on the right-hand side,
I want it to push left.
I need to tell the centering
constraint that it can yield to the
other constraints in the system.
This is also easy.
Constraints have a
built-in priority system.
And in the inspector,
I can simply lower the priority
of the centering constraint.
and it will yield as things get tight.
For example,
if I type a large title here,
The title moves to the left.
You can see that here with this.
The centering constraint is still running
right through the middle of the text.
It used to be right in the middle
of the scene here next to my image.
If I hit undo and redo,
you can see how it moved when
the spacing got tight over here.
Okay, I'm making great use of my space.
Let's see how things look in portrait.
Oh, ouch.
My title just absolutely crushed
those buttons on the two sides.
I need to make my application
smarter than this.
Let's go back to landscape.
What I'd like to have happen here is for
the title to shrink before the buttons,
because the buttons should always
stay a fixed size in my application.
Just like constraints have
a built-in priority system,
so do the intrinsic sizes of
our user interface elements.
I can select my title,
and in the size inspector,
lower the priority of
the horizontal sizing.
Now, when my application shrinks,
the title will shrink first,
and the buttons won't shrink.
When the title shrinks, though,
there still won't be enough
space to actually hold that text,
and so it will get truncated.
I'd like instead for the
font to become smaller,
and UILabel has a great feature for this.
In the attributes inspector,
I can choose to have the font
automatically shrink to a smaller size.
For example,
let's have it scale to one quarter of its
current size if there's not enough room.
Now, if I select the scene
and move to portrait,
you can see that things fit great.
My title is right in the
center between those buttons.
It's the biggest font that it could
possibly be to show all of that
text and still leave the padding
that we specified on either side.
If I was to specify this
with the old layout system,
springs and struts,
I would have had to stop.
This layout is actually not
expressible with springs and struts.
I would have had to write
manual layout code instead.
Manual layout code is a drag.
Our application responds
great to new string changes.
I could change this title,
I could change the button labels,
and everything would resize
great because of Auto Layout.
And we saw that we could build a
great new feature on top of this,
and that's the new localization workflow
that you heard Matt mention earlier.
Let me show you how you
can get started with that.
I'm going to select the project,
and in the project's editor,
I can see a list of all of the languages
that our application currently supports.
Right now, it just supports English.
We have a new checkbox
under the table here,
"Use base internationalization."
When I check this,
Xcode is going to offer to take
my iPad storyboard and move it
out of the English localization
and instead into the base.
And then for each language
that I add to my project,
I'm going to be able to add a simple
strings file to translate that base
storyboard into a specific language.
I can check the box,
and Xcode is going to move my
storyboard from English to the base,
and I can add a new language, German.
All of my strings files will be
copied from English to German,
and a set of default strings will be
extracted from my base storyboard.
I can see the new strings from my base
storyboard here in the project navigator.
Now, almost all of the string content
is going to be replaced dynamically
at runtime with things like facts
about the Golden Gate Bridge,
but the three buttons that
I added earlier are static,
and their strings are displayed here.
I know just enough
German to translate these,
so let me replace those
couple of strings.
and Matt Fischer are all here.
Now, I've already configured the iPhone
simulator to launch in German.
Here it's running,
here's our application,
and here's all of our content
translated into German.
The buttons look great,
the title looks great,
and all my content specified
with Auto Layout looks great.
We think you're going to love
this new localization workflow.
Back to you, Matt.
Thanks, Jon.
As you can see,
creating a localized application is
now just as simple as working with
Auto Layout and your localized content.
We think you and your users are
going to enjoy this feature.
Now, in addition to great
editing and design tools,
the Xcode suite of tools also
includes great optimization tools,
ways for you to improve
your applications.
The Xcode IDE includes a number of
live editing features to help you sort
out problems that you might be having.
Undoubtedly,
you've seen the error and warning
icons that appear in the editor,
pointing out points of problems.
The editor will point out
the exact line and character
at which the problem exists,
and in many cases,
will give you helpful suggestions
on how to fix the problem.
These and other features,
like code completion and syntax coloring,
are made possible because the
Xcode IDE has a deep understanding
of the semantics of your project.
And that's all made possible because
we have the LLVM technologies
built directly inside of the IDE.
And to give you an overview of
all the amazing things possible
with these technologies,
I'd love to bring up Chris Lattner.
Chris?
Thank you, Matthew.
LLVM technologies power some
of the underlying capabilities
that make Xcode great,
such as code completion, live issues,
and it has three primary
features of its own.
This includes the LLVM compiler,
the Xcode static analyzer,
and the LLDB debugger.
There's a lot going on in
the new release of Xcode,
so let's dive in and see
what's new in each of these,
starting with the compiler.
This year we're releasing
Apple LLVM Compiler 4 with a huge
number of great improvements,
including improvements
to the generated code,
faster builds,
and a lot of other wonderful stuff.
Now,
one of the most visible improvements to
the compiler is the language support.
Mike and Matthew have already shown you
the great enhancements to Objective-C,
which I hope you'll love.
Let's talk now about C++.
C++ is a great language.
It's also a very large language.
Looking back on our clicker,
looking back to just last year,
we first shipped Xcode 4,
which had initial support
for C++ in the LLVM compiler.
This was not that long ago.
Not only did we support C++
in the compiler at that point,
we also added it to the IDE as well.
This gave great support
for code completion,
syntax highlighting,
all the other IDE features that
you've come to know and expect.
Well, we weren't content to just
stop there with C++ support,
and so we set our sights on C++ 11,
the next major enhancement
to the C++ language.
And later that year, in Xcode 4.2,
we released the next big set
of features in the compiler.
Of course, C++, it turns out,
is a big language, so we kept going.
And we added another great set
of features in Xcode 4.3 and 4.4.
Well, at this point,
we have the vast majority
of the features in C++ 11,
including things like Unicode support,
Atomics, and one very specially requested
feature by many of you,
C++ 11 Lambdas.
Now, we are committed to providing full
support for the C++11 standard.
And even though we have a
few more features to go,
I'm really excited to say that at
this point Xcode 4.4 is leading
the industry in support for C++11,
which means that if you have
a portable C++ code base,
it's really straightforward to
bring it right to our platform.
Now, language is really important,
but it's not the only thing we've
been improving in the compiler.
Another area that we've been specifically
focusing on is compiler warnings.
Now, compiler warnings are an important
aspect of the compiler experience,
right?
This takes the analysis power that
the compiler uses to generate machine
code from your source and identify
issues and problems and places
that you can improve your code.
So we've made a number of
enhancements to warnings this year,
including improving our support
for format string checking
to support Objective-C APIs.
APIs like NSLog and
NSString string with format.
And as you'd expect,
the compiler doesn't just say, hey,
you got a problem right here.
It also says, hey, here's a fix, right?
And it shows you exactly what you need
to do to correct the problem and then,
you know, move on with making your
applications great in other ways.
Now, compiler warnings have been an
important part of the compiler,
and we've been adding many of
them for quite some time now.
But this kind of raises
an interesting question.
While it makes sense to turn on a
lot of warnings like this by default.
Some of them are not.
Some of them are very specific
to certain kinds of applications.
And how do you get them?
Well, normally you'd start
out with a flag like,
you know, our friend wall here.
Well, despite what you'd expect,
wall doesn't turn on all the
warnings in the compiler.
And so you end up accumulating a pile
of other flags and maybe you read
some cool blog and they showed you
some neat tricks that you could get.
But this is really a poor answer, right?
I mean,
a new version of the compiler comes out,
you don't know about all
the gray enhancements in it,
and how do you know what to turn on?
Well, we took -- we took a few of the
things that we took and implemented a
very simple answer for this problem,
which we call weverything.
I don't think I need to
tell you what this does.
Based on this,
which really does turn on all the
warning flags in the compiler,
you can then choose to opt out
of warnings that you don't want,
which means that you get maximal
feedback from the compiler,
and then you can tune
it for your code base.
And so you get a great experience,
and when a new version of
the compiler comes out,
you can immediately take advantage
of any new warnings it has.
Now, the compiler warnings are
really powerful because they run
every time you build your code,
but that's also kind of a limitation
because some bugs can't be found
in the amount of time you want
to spend in line with your build.
To find deeper bugs,
we have a tool called the
Xcode Static Analyzer,
which goes much further.
The Static Analyzer uses deep
compiler analysis to really understand
your code and all the way down
to the level of exploring individual
paths and error conditions and
all kinds of stuff in your code.
Now,
like the compiler and the rest of Xcode,
the Static Analyzer has a
number of great improvements,
one of which makes all of the existing
analysis checks more powerful,
which we call cross-function analysis.
Now, here's a very simple example.
I know this looks like production code.
And you know,
we have two simple C functions,
bar and foo.
Bar calls foo.
Really creative here.
If you ran this through a
previous version of Xcode,
it would see no problem with this at all.
If you run it through Xcode 4.4,
immediately it points out an issue.
It says, hey, you're turning garbage
data out of your function.
This is a really bad problem because
this is the class of problems that
could work fine for you on your desktop.
You ship it to your customers and
suddenly you're getting bad reviews in
the app store because your apps aren't
working right and you have no idea what's
going on because it doesn't reproduce.
Well, now Xcode will find these
classes of problems and,
you know, of course,
that's not enough information
to fix the problem,
so you just click on the issue right
in the editor and out pops a series
of steps that are exactly what
you need to know to reproduce and,
more importantly, fix the problem.
If you haven't already,
I highly encourage you to run
the SAC Analyzer by building
and analyzing your code.
It will find all kinds
of really nasty issues.
Now, beyond cross function analysis,
we've also made the analyzer more
powerful in other ways by implementing
checkers for really important
APIs like Grand Central Dispatch,
various security APIs,
and also for the very
popular Malik and Free API,
so I think you'll find that the checker
is even more powerful than before.
Now, like compiler warnings,
the SAC Analyzer can be individually
controlled in the build settings
inspector where you can enable or
disable individual checks so you have
really fine-grained control over the
checks that make sense for your code.
Now, the Static Analyzer and Compiler
Warnings are really powerful
and they're really great tools,
but they're not going to
find bugs in your code that
just cause it to misbehave,
right?
If it behaves in some way
that you wouldn't expect,
that's when you turn to the debugger.
And we have a great debugger named LLDB.
If you're not familiar with LLDB,
it's very similar to
GDB in a lot of ways.
It has a great Xcode user interface,
has a great command
line console interface,
and you may not realize it,
but LLDB became the default debugger
in Xcode 4.3 earlier this year.
You may not realize it because the
Xcode experience for LLV is very,
very similar to that of GDB.
Well, it's just like GDB, except,
you know, it starts up a lot faster.
Let's see here.
It's more correct.
The data formatters work more often.
It'll even show your
variables now and then.
I mean, it's basically just like GDB.
It's just that, hey, it works.
How about that?
But LLV has a number of enhancements
above and beyond GDB also.
Things like it builds right on
top of all the LLVM technologies
we've been talking about,
which means all the Objective-C, C++11,
and other language syntax
works right in the console.
And so here you can see I'm
playing with an NSDictionary using
new subscripting syntax.
I'm building a dictionary
with that curly brace.
It all just works, right?
I mean, this is what you'd
expect from the debugger.
Now,
LLV has a number of other great features.
It has really powerful data formatters.
One really powerful new feature this
year is that we've implemented support
for hardware watchpoints on iOS devices,
which means it's really simple to track
down really nasty memory problems even
if they only reproduce on the device.
If you're familiar with watchpoints,
I think you'll really love this.
Now,
with all this talk about GDB and LLVM,
you may be wondering,
what is our plan for GDB?
If you look at our
technology platform now,
we have a default compiler,
which is the LLVM compiler,
a default debugger,
which is the LLVM debugger.
Now, Xcode 4.4 and 4.5 still support
the older LLVM GCC compiler
and the older GDB debugger,
but at this point,
they're officially deprecated and
they'll be going away next year.
Now, I don't know about you,
but we are really excited about
this because this means that we'll
finally have a single compiler,
a single debugger,
and now we're going to be able to
innovate even faster going forward,
which is better for everybody.
So if you're still using
the older technologies,
now is the time to move and keep going.
Now,
coming back to our technology platform,
we've been talking
about LLVM technologies.
There's more to Xcode's debugging
and analysis capabilities than
just these LLVM technologies,
so let's take a look at
some of these right now.
We have two great tools for this.
One is the Instruments
Performance Analysis tool,
which can pretty much tell you
anything you want to know about
how your application is running
and what it's doing at runtime,
including telling you about memory use,
network, disk I/O, system calls,
just about anything you could want.
Last year we also introduced
the OpenGL Frame Debugger,
which can capture and play back
the series of OpenGL API calls,
and better yet,
show you the textures and the resources
that your application is using at runtime
so you can see what's going into a frame.
This year we've gone even farther
beyond that by integrating
OpenGL performance information
directly into the Debug Navigator,
and we've even built an entire
OpenGL Expert right into the tools.
And instead of telling
you all about this,
I'd really like to invite Ted Kremenek
up to show you how it works.
Ted?
Okay, great.
So here we are in Xcode,
and we're looking again at
the demo application that
we showed you earlier today.
And this time,
I'm going to go ahead and run
this on an iPad 2 that's sitting
right here in front of me.
So let me switch to that display.
Okay, here we are.
So we've got this beautiful
photograph of the Golden Gate Bridge,
and we've enhanced this application
to show a new OpenGL visualization
that shows the 3D model of the bridge.
And this is going to showcase some
of our debugging features because
it doesn't quite work as expected.
including expanding to the OpenGL view.
Here we go.
So great view of the Golden Gate Bridge.
And beyond just panning
around the bridge itself,
I've enhanced this view
to respond to touch.
So it's supposed to change the
camera angle when I touch the screen.
But I haven't actually tested this yet,
so let's see if this actually works.
And apparently it doesn't.
Instead of the camera angle changing,
it stopped.
So I guess I could call this a feature,
but this is actually not
the behavior I intended.
Let's look again at Xcode.
And we can see that we
stopped right in the debugger.
And on the right,
we see this exe bad access message.
And that's Unix parlance for you
to reference a bad pointer value.
Let me pull up the variables
view at the bottom.
So we were referencing a field
off of this variable ggdpp.
If I expand it in the variables view,
you can see it's just a bunch
of garbage pointer values.
The debugger can even tell that
it can't safely dereference them
because these floating point
values aren't getting printed out.
So I have one of two possible problems.
Either I failed to initialize
the object correctly or I just
collaborated somewhere along the way.
Let's go ahead and
investigate what's going on.
Using Xcode's navigation features,
let's see where this
variable was declared.
Here I can see that it's
a static global variable.
It's a pointer.
And it's actually
initialized to being a null.
So this means I must have initialized
it somewhere or else I would reference
a null pointer instead of just
some subfield that was garbage.
Since it's static,
I know that its visibility
is restricted to this file,
so let's just go ahead
and scan downwards.
And here we see some lazy
initialization logic that appears to
be firing when this view starts up.
Now, perhaps I messed up
when I wrote this code.
Maybe there's some logic bug in
this lazy initialization routine.
So let's go back to breakpoint and
see what happens when I rerun the
application and stop at this point.
Not much to see here.
I'm just opening up the
OpenGL view you saw again.
And here we've stopped in
the breakpoint as expected.
The variables view shows that
it's still a null pointer,
so nothing else has gone
on until this point.
Let's look at this helper
function to see what's going on.
As you can see,
it's just standard boilerplate
initialization code.
We're just creating a
bunch of structures,
initializing them,
and we see them showing
up in the variables view.
Everything looks fine here.
These values look just
what I expect them to be.
I see floating point values.
Let's get out of this function,
and immediately we see one of
the great new enhancements to
the debugger user experience,
and that now the return value of
a function you just stepped out
of shows up in the variables view.
And this is great,
because if this value was consumed
in some larger expression,
you wouldn't have seen it, right?
You might have to restructure
your code in order to,
you know, debug those kind of values.
Let's step one more time and see if
that value is getting assigned correctly
to the variable that we cared about.
So I can rule out bogus initialization.
So this means that at this point,
I think I just must be
collaborating this somewhere else.
And to debug this,
I could do a variety of things.
I could create a whole bunch of
breakpoints within this code,
and just try and, you know,
bisect down to where the
problem is happening.
Maybe I could even add
logging statements.
Instead,
let's resort to a far more elegant
technique and use hardware watchpoints.
I can add a watchpoint just by
clicking on the variable and saying
"watch" in the variable name,
or the field name in this case.
And what will happen is when
I continue the application,
when this memory is modified,
the debugger will stop.
This is exactly what I want to see.
So let's continue.
I'm just going to touch
the screen one more time.
And here we have our smoking gun, right?
We're doing a mem copy right
over that memory address,
right?
We're just blowing away all those fields.
And it doesn't take much effort
to see what the problem was.
It looks like I have a single typo where
I meant to copy into this variable,
but instead I was copying
into the global one.
So easy mistake.
Maybe it was copy/paste.
But it leaves me a little nervous, like,
well, what other problems like
this are still in my code?
The debugger was great
for finding this problem,
but if I hadn't actually
tested all the code paths,
maybe my user is going to
experience something that
I just didn't test completely.
So in Xcode 4.4 and 4.5,
we've significantly enhanced the
Static Source Code Analyzer to
help you find issues like these.
It won't find necessarily all of them,
but it will do a vastly
improved job of doing so.
Let's go ahead and run the
Static Analyzer on this now.
This does a comprehensive source code
analysis without running your program,
and we immediately see an analyzer
warning coming up very close to the
point where we have the problem.
We click on the issue,
which says that we're using a garbage
value as part of a multiplication.
We get this rich diagnosis of a bug.
And we can see from the
start of update scene,
we declare our variable,
and we step into the function
copy bridge position.
And you can see in the
navigator bar at the top,
we actually have this abstract
call stack that you can dig into.
And we can see the analyzer is actually
doing a deep reasoning of this code.
And it can tell that that memory is
not actually properly initialized
because that value is not used.
Just simple things like this is going to
greatly improve the analyzer's precision.
It reduces false positives and
increases its coverage over
understanding what your code is doing.
So the fix is simple.
Just change a single character.
The power of demos, the fixes are easy.
And let's rerun this application.
Here we have the Golden Gate Bridge.
But now when I actually touch it,
the screen, you know,
the camera changes just as I expect.
Now, there's one thing about this that
isn't really so appealing right now,
even though it's not crash anymore,
is that the frame rate
is still pretty choppy.
And we have some great new
performance analysis tools in Xcode
to help you dig into these problems.
If you draw your attention to the
debug navigator up the top left,
we see this live view of frames per
second of your current OpenGL view.
And it's color-coded in red
because the frames per second
isn't really all that great.
Here in these histograms,
we have this live view of essentially
how you're bound in terms of
computing the current frames.
Here we see that we're GPU bound.
And if I click this Analyze
Performance button at the top,
it summons that OpenGL expert who's
going to go and do an extensive
performance analysis for me.
What's happening at this point
is Xcode is sampling a current
frame from that 3D rendering.
It's logging all the OpenGL calls
needed to construct that frame.
And then once it does so,
it runs a series of performance
tests on the device itself,
essentially trying to manipulate the
graphics pipeline to see where the
performance bottlenecks might be.
Now, this is taking a little bit of time,
but if you contrast this to
what an OpenGL expert might do,
they might run these tests over
the series of an entire afternoon,
whereas Xcode is running it for you
automatically in a matter of minutes.
Now, in just a moment, as you can see,
we have this progress bar here,
and you can't see it right now,
but basically the display has
gone black on the iPad because
it's running these tests.
But in a moment, you're going to see some
diagnostics come up here.
Great.
So immediately,
the OpenGL Performance Analyzer says
that we're fragment shader bound,
and because of that,
it's going to run additional experiments.
If I have the Assistant Editor over
here on the right,
if I click on specific issues,
it'll bring me to the shader or
the draw call that's responsible
for some of the performance issues.
And from here,
I can really dive in and do an
extensive performance analysis.
So all of this is really great.
From this, I'll be able to improve the
performance of my rendering.
And we have shown you just a few
highlights of the new debugging
and performance analysis techniques
we've added to Xcode 4.4 and 4.5.
We think you're really
going to love them.
Thank you very much.
Thanks, Ted.
We are really excited about these
improvements to our performance tools.
Static Analyzer with now
cross-functional analysis,
all the improvements to LLDB,
and the new enhancements to
the OpenGL ES Debugger with the
Performance Detective built right in.
We feel these tools are really going
to help you guys take all of your
applications to the next level.
Now, of course,
once you're done optimizing
your applications,
the next thing you want to do is ship it.
And Xcode has a full complement of tools
built in to help you achieve this goal.
Whether you're trying to
ship your application to the
App Store with Developer ID or
through another mechanism,
Xcode has complete integration with
the Apple Developer Programs to
make this easy.
If you're a Mac developer and
you want to use Developer ID,
there's really nothing
more for you to do.
Xcode will automatically request and
download your Developer ID certificate,
and you can get off and running.
If you'd like to ship your
app in one of the app stores,
Xcode and the
Developer Portal automatically
integrate to give you guys access to the
assets necessary for your applications.
Xcode and the Portal will
collaborate to give you access to
your group's definitions and teams,
your devices, all of your provisioning
profiles and certificates,
pretty much everything you need to do.
And this includes updating your
provisioning profiles to use the
latest features and enhancements.
The latest Xcode includes support for
some of the new features and entitlements
that were announced just yesterday.
Two that I would like to point out.
The first is in-app purchase content.
Xcode now includes a project
template for you to create
your in-app purchase content,
and will support submitting
the content directly to the app
store alongside your application.
Xcode also includes development
time support for working with
Passbook and transit apps,
so you can adopt these very
quickly for your applications.
For OS X developers,
Xcode also includes really easy
support for setting up and enabling
sandboxing for your application.
The target editor includes a
rich selection of sandboxing
options for you to enable,
and you can get off and running.
Now, when you're ready to
deploy your application,
Xcode's archiving feature
makes it really easy to package
up and deploy your content.
Simply select the archive
option under the product menu,
and Xcode will do all the work
underneath to package up your content.
You'll find all of your archives
in the Archives Organizer.
It keeps a historical list
of everything you've built.
And once you've found the archive
that you want to distribute,
it's as simple as selecting
it and clicking the Distribute
button in the upper right.
For iOS developers,
you have the option to submit
directly to the iOS App Store,
save for enterprise
or ad hoc deployments,
or share with another
one of your team members.
OS X developers can submit
to the Mac App Store,
sign with a developer ID,
or export to share with, for example,
a beta tester.
So no matter what
audience you're targeting,
whether it's a beta tester,
a member of your team,
one of the app stores,
or using developer ID,
the Xcode IDE has a complete set
of tools to make that possible.
So now is your opportunity to
go out and try these new tools.
As a reminder,
we have two versions upcoming.
Xcode 4.4 alongside OS X Mountain Lion,
and then later after that,
you'll see Xcode 4.5 alongside iOS 6.
For this week, we're giving you access
to Xcode 4.5 as a preview.
And as a reminder,
this application version works on
both OS X Lion and Mountain Lion,
so you can get started right away.
And with that, thank you very much.